.TH ATTACH-DMG 1 "2026-07-07" "libtether 0.0.1" "libtether Manual"
.SH NAME
attach\-dmg \- attach (mount) a disk image, like \fBhdiutil attach\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B attach\-dmg
.RB [ \-readonly | \-readwrite ]
.RB [ \-noverify ]
.RB [ \-quiet ]
.RB [ \-verbose ]
.I image
.br
.B attach\-dmg
.RB { \-h | \-help }
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B attach\-dmg
attaches the disk image
.I image
to the running system, creating a
.I /dev/diskN
device and mounting its volumes, exactly as
.B hdiutil attach
does. It hands the image to the private DiskImages.framework
.RB ( DIHLDiskImageAttach ),
so it works for any format DiskImages recognises \(em UDIF
.RI ( .dmg ),
sparse images
.RI ( .sparseimage ),
sparse bundles
.RI ( .sparsebundle ,
a directory), ISO or CD masters
.RI ( .iso ,
.IR .cdr ),
NDIF, and encrypted images \(em not just
.IR .dmg .
.PP
On success it prints one line per attached entity to standard output, formatted as:
.PP
.RS
.RI < dev-entry >\et< content-hint >\et< mount-point >
.RE
.PP
Entities without a mount point (for example a whole-disk partition scheme) print an empty
mount-point field.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-readonly
Attach the image read-only. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-readwrite
Attach the image read-write.
.TP
.B \-noverify
Skip checksum verification of the image before attaching.
.TP
.B \-quiet
Reduce diagnostic output from the DiskImages framework.
.TP
.B \-verbose
Increase diagnostic output from the DiskImages framework.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-help
Print a usage message and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The image was attached successfully.
.TP
.B 2
Command-line usage error (no image, an unknown option, or more than one image).
.TP
.RB "other (" 1 \(en 255 )
Attach failed; a positive value in that range is the DiskImages status code, otherwise the
failure is reported as
.BR 1 .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Attach an image read-only (the default):
.RS
.EX
attach\-dmg /path/to/Image.dmg
.EE
.RE
.PP
Attach a sparse image read-write:
.RS
.EX
attach\-dmg \-readwrite /path/to/Image.sparseimage
.EE
.RE
.PP
Attach quietly without verifying the checksum:
.RS
.EX
attach\-dmg \-noverify \-quiet /path/to/Image.dmg
.EE
.RE
.SH NOTES
.B macOS only.
Attaching some images may require entitlements or administrator rights; run with appropriate
privileges if attach returns a permission error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR detach\-dmg (1),
.BR hdiutil (1),
.BR libtether.h (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Udvare
