.TH DETACH-DMG 1 "2026-07-07" "libtether 0.0.1" "libtether Manual"
.SH NAME
detach\-dmg \- detach (unmount and eject) a disk image, like \fBhdiutil detach\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B detach\-dmg
.RB [ \-force ]
.RB [ \-timeout
.IR seconds ]
.I target
.br
.B detach\-dmg
.RB { \-h | \-help }
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B detach\-dmg
detaches a previously attached disk image, unmounting its volumes and tearing down the backing
device, exactly as
.B hdiutil detach
does. It resolves
.I target
to its whole disk and then performs a whole-disk
.B DADiskUnmount
followed by
.B DADiskEject
through the public DiskArbitration.framework, mirroring hdiutil's
.I unmount_and_eject
path.
.PP
.I target
may be a BSD device name
.RI ( disk4 ),
a
.I /dev
path
.RI ( /dev/disk4 ", " /dev/disk4s1 ", " /dev/rdisk4s1 ),
or a mount point
.RI ( /Volumes/Foo ).
A partition specification still detaches the whole disk.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-force
Force the unmount, unmounting even if the volume is in use.
.TP
.BI \-timeout " seconds"
Upper bound, in seconds, on the wait for each DiskArbitration callback. A value less than or equal
to zero selects a sane default.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-help
Print a usage message and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The image was detached successfully.
.TP
.B 2
Command-line usage error (no target, an unknown option,
.B \-timeout
without an argument, or more than one target).
.TP
.RB "other (" 1 \(en 255 )
Detach failed; a positive value in that range is the
.B DADissenter
status code, otherwise the failure is reported as
.BR 1 .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Detach by BSD name:
.RS
.EX
detach\-dmg disk4
.EE
.RE
.PP
Detach by a partition
.I /dev
path (still detaches the whole disk):
.RS
.EX
detach\-dmg /dev/disk4s1
.EE
.RE
.PP
Detach by mount point:
.RS
.EX
detach\-dmg /Volumes/Foo
.EE
.RE
.PP
Force the unmount with a 60-second callback timeout:
.RS
.EX
detach\-dmg \-force \-timeout 60 disk4
.EE
.RE
.SH NOTES
.B macOS only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR attach\-dmg (1),
.BR hdiutil (1),
.BR libtether.h (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Udvare
