.TH LIBTETHER.H 3 "2026-07-07" "libtether 0.0.1" "libtether Library Functions"
.SH NAME
libtether.h \- public interface of libtether: attach and detach macOS disk images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libtether.h>
.PP
.B #define LIBTETHER_VERSION "0.0.1"
.PP
.B typedef struct {
.RS
.B bool read_only;
.B bool skip_verify;
.B bool verbose;
.B bool quiet;
.RE
.B } teth_attach_options;
.PP
.BI "int teth_attach(const char *" image_path ,
.BI "                const teth_attach_options *" opts ,
.BI "                CFDictionaryRef *" out_results );
.PP
.BI "void teth_print_attach_results(CFDictionaryRef " results );
.PP
.BI "int teth_detach(const char *" dev_or_mount ,
.BI "                bool " force ,
.BI "                double " timeout_seconds );
.fi
.PP
Link with the DiskArbitration, CoreFoundation, and IOKit frameworks; the private
DiskImages.framework is resolved at run time via
.BR CFBundle .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B libtether
tethers a disk image to the running system: attach mounts it as a
.I /dev/diskN
device, and detach unmounts and releases it again. It does only those two things \(em there
is no creation or format manipulation. It replicates what
.B hdiutil attach
and
.B hdiutil detach
do:
.IP \(bu 2
attach uses the private DiskImages.framework
.RB ( DIHLDiskImageAttach );
.IP \(bu 2
detach uses the public DiskArbitration.framework (unmount and eject of the whole disk),
mirroring hdiutil's
.I unmount_and_eject
path.
.SS Attach options
The
.B teth_attach_options
structure controls how
.BR teth_attach ()
mounts an image. Each field maps to an entry hdiutil sets in the DiskImages attach options
dictionary. A NULL options pointer passed to
.BR teth_attach ()
is treated as a read-only attach with verification enabled.
.TP
.B bool read_only
Set the
.I read-only
attach option; a plain attach is read-only.
.TP
.B bool skip_verify
Set the
.I skip-verify
family of attach options.
.TP
.B bool verbose
Set the
.I verbose
attach option.
.TP
.B bool quiet
Set the
.I quiet
attach option.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.SS teth_attach()
.BI "int teth_attach(const char *" image_path ", const teth_attach_options *" opts ", CFDictionaryRef *" out_results );
.PP
Attach (mount) the disk image at
.IR image_path .
Builds the DiskImages option dictionary exactly as
.B hdiutil attach
does and calls
.BR DIHLDiskImageAttach .
Works for any image format DiskImages recognises (UDIF
.IR .dmg ,
.IR .sparseimage ,
.IR .sparsebundle ,
.IR .iso / .cdr ,
NDIF, encrypted), not just
.IR .dmg .
.TP
.I image_path
Filesystem path to the disk image. May be a regular file or, for a
.IR .sparsebundle ,
a directory.
.TP
.I opts
Attach options, or NULL for the defaults (read-only, verified).
.TP
.I out_results
If non-NULL, receives a retained
.B CFDictionaryRef
on success: the attach result whose
.I system-entities
key is a
.B CFArray
of
.RI { dev-entry ", " mount-point ", " content-hint }
dictionaries. The caller takes ownership and must release it with
.BR CFRelease ().
.PP
On success the DiskImages framework is left loaded for the lifetime of the process so that the
attached device outlives this call.
.SS teth_print_attach_results()
.BI "void teth_print_attach_results(CFDictionaryRef " results );
.PP
Print the
.I system-entities
of an attach result to standard output. Writes one line per entity formatted as
.RI < dev-entry >\et< content-hint >\et< mount-point >,
matching the spirit of
.B hdiutil attach
output. Entities without a mount point (for example a whole-disk partition scheme) print an
empty mount-point field.
.TP
.I results
An attach result dictionary as produced by
.BR teth_attach ().
Passing NULL is a no-op.
.SS teth_detach()
.BI "int teth_detach(const char *" dev_or_mount ", bool " force ", double " timeout_seconds );
.PP
Detach (unmount and eject) a previously attached image. Resolves
.I dev_or_mount
to its whole disk, then performs a whole-disk
.B DADiskUnmount
followed by
.B DADiskEject
through DiskArbitration, mirroring hdiutil's
.IR unmount_and_eject .
Operating on the whole disk tears the image down, equivalent to
.BR "hdiutil detach" .
.TP
.I dev_or_mount
Target as a BSD device name
.RI ( disk4 ),
a
.I /dev
path
.RI ( /dev/disk4 ", " /dev/disk4s1 ", " /dev/rdisk4s1 ),
or a mount point
.RI ( /Volumes/Foo ).
A partition spec still detaches the whole disk.
.TP
.I force
If true, add the force option to the unmount.
.TP
.I timeout_seconds
Upper bound, in seconds, on the wait for each DiskArbitration callback; a value <= 0 selects a
sane default.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR teth_attach ()
returns 0 on success; a non-zero DiskImages status code on attach failure; or a negative value
for local errors
.RB ( \-2
invalid path,
.B \-3
DiskImages framework load failure).
.PP
.BR teth_detach ()
returns 0 on success; a non-zero
.B DADissenter
status on unmount or eject failure; or a negative value for local errors
.RB ( \-2
unparseable target,
.B \-3
DiskArbitration session-create failure).
.PP
.BR teth_print_attach_results ()
does not return a value.
.SH MACROS
.TP
.B LIBTETHER_VERSION
The libtether version string in semantic-versioning form
.RB ( \(dq0.0.1\(dq ).
.SH NOTES
.B macOS only.
libtether depends on DiskArbitration.framework, CoreFoundation, IOKit, and the private
DiskImages.framework. The build hard-fails on non-Apple platforms.
.PP
Attaching a
.I .dmg
is not a DiskArbitration operation: DiskArbitration only mounts, unmounts, and ejects devices
that already exist, whereas creating the
.I /dev/diskN
backing device from an image file is done by the private DiskImages.framework. libtether
resolves the needed DiskImages symbols at run time with
.BR CFBundle ,
because on current macOS private frameworks live in the dyld shared cache with no on-disk stub to
link against.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR attach-dmg (1),
.BR detach-dmg (1),
.BR hdiutil (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Udvare
